
# REQUIRED Quiz Resources and Directions: Ethereum Blockchain - Week 2

# **Week 2 - Ethereum Blockchain**

# Quiz Directions

**Task 1: Exploring a Block in the Ethereum Blockchain (Q1-Q2)**

In this task, you will inspect and explore block #4390176 in the Ethereum blockchain (You can explore the Ethereum Blockchain at the Etherscan weblink given above). Locate the block number, the hash of this block, the hash of the previous block (parent) and the number of transactions in that block. You may explore other things in the block as well. After this, you will go to the previous block (block #4390175) and verify if the hash of this block is same as mentioned in the current block. You can explore the Ethereum Blockchain at the website listed above.

**Task 2: Exploring a Transaction in Ethereum (Q3-Q4)**

In this task, you will inspect and explore a specific transaction in Ethereum. You will explore the transaction with the hash: 0x5edb69874d0900d8857468fbe53715cc1a58137709b8b70e46299bf10983dc09. Use the Etherscan website above to search for this transaction using the hash value provided. Locate and inspect the various details mentioned in the transaction, specifically the Transaction value, the Gas used, the Gas Limit and, the sender and receiver of the transaction.

# Quiz Resources

**The following resources are provided to assist you in answering the quiz questions.** We would like to acknowledge the authors of the various websites for their platform and transactions which help form the basis for some sections of the lessons and modules.

**Title of Resource:** [**Etherscan**](https://etherscan.io/)

Resource Type: Website

Description: EtherScan is a Block Explorer, Search, API and Analytics Platform for Ethereum, a decentralized smart contracts platform. You can use this website to explore and answer questions related to Ethereum Blockchain.

